well Israeli air strikes have targeted
areas close to villages in southern
Lebanon missiles were reportedly fired
near kashuba the Israeli Army says it
has hit Hezbollah positions Israel has
evacuated towns along the border with
Lebanon after repeated exchanges of fire
zah hod joins us live from Southern
Lebanon now and Z can you just explain
exactly where you are and uh give us
some more detail about these
strikes well we're not very far from the
Israel Lebanon border at the time being
it is quiet but that border has been
very much an active front line for more
than a week now since Israel began to uh
Target Gaza Hezbollah trying to put
pressure on the Israelis telling them
that they're going to face more than one
front if they continue uh to Target Gaza
Hezbollah you know targeting Israeli
military positions along the boorder
targeting Israeli tanks in return asra
uh targeting sources of fire has
Hezbollah does not have any military
positions or bases along the border when
Israel says sources of fire they're
going after fighters who are you know
hiding in the terrain behind me as you
can see it's very much open terrain but
this conflict along the border is very
very much contained at least for the
time being in terms of scope as you
noticed I'm talking about military
targets uh both sides are avoiding
civilian casualties at least for the
time being and in terms of scope the
geography it's very much limited to a
radius of 4 km on both sides of the
border so both sides clearly not wanting
this to to become a full-blown War uh
but for the time being and Hezbollah
officials have made this very clear that
these are skirmishes and a warning but
we heard a top Hezbollah official say
yesterday that we will not allow Gaza to
fall now the question is what will be
hezbollah's red line before it engages
in conflict with its full military
capabilities is it when they feel Hamas
can no longer resist assist the
Israelis and Z there are also reports
that Iranian backed groups are targeting
US troops what more can you tell us
about
that well what we're seeing in the past
uh few hours or so is an expansion of
targets US military targets Iranian
backed groups are believed they haven't
claimed responsibility yet this we have
to be very careful here but US troops in
Iraq reported uh that they thwarted a
drone attack on their troops a short
while ago we're getting reports that a
main US base along the border between
Syria and Iraq TANF has come under
attack by three armed drones It is
believed that iranian-backed armed
groups which are based in that area are
responsible and really what we have been
hearing either from Iranian officials uh
or um you know officials of our groups
Allied to Iran Hezbollah Hamas they're
blaming the United States they're saying
that the US Administration is directly
responsible for the atrocities that
Israel is committing and that you know
in many ways this unconditional and
unwavering support is is why Israel has
this green light to operate so now we
are seeing us bases the military
presence coming under Fire no doubt
trying to put more and more pressure on
Israel uh to stop really its campaign
against Gaza okay thank you so much
that's Z for us in southern Lebanon